# Introduction to Variables

A **variable** in Python represents a named location that refers to a value and whose
values can be used and processed during the program run. In other words, variables are
labels/names to which we can assign value and use them as a reference to that value
throughout the code.
Variables are fundamental to programming for two reasons:
+ Variables keep values accessible: For example, The result of a time-consuming
operation can be assigned to a variable so that the operation need not be performed
each time we need the result.
+ Variables give values context: For example, The number 56 could mean lots of
different things, such as the number of students in a class, or the average weight of all
students in the class. Assigning the number 56 to a variable with a name like
num_students would make more sense, to distinguish it from another variable
average_weight, which would refer to the average weight of the students. This way we
can have different variables pointing to different values.

## How are Values Assigned to A Variable?
Values are assigned to a variable using a special symbol “=”, called the assignment
operator. An operator is a symbol, like = or +, that performs some operation on one or
more values. For example, the + operator takes two numbers, one to the left of the
operator and one to the right, and adds them together. Likewise, the “=” operator takes
a value to the right of the operator and assigns it to the name/label/variable on the left
of the operator.
For Example: Now let us create a variable namely Student to hold a student’s name
and a variable Age to hold a student’s age.

```python
student = "Jacob"
age = 19
```

Now, let us modify the first program we wrote.
```python
greetings = "Hello World!"
print(greetings)
```

Here, the Python program assigned the value of the string to a variable greeting, and
then when we call print(greeting), it prints the value that the variable, greeting, points to
i.e. "Hello, World!"

## Naming a variable
You must keep the following points in your mind while naming a variable:-
+ Variable names can contain letters, numbers, and underscores.
+ They cannot contain spaces.
+ Variable names cannot start with a number.
+ Variable names are case-sensitive. For example:- The variable names Temp and
temp are different.
+ While writing a program, creating self-explanatory variable names helps a lot in
increasing the readability of the code. However, too-long names can clutter up
the program and make it difficult to read.

```python
#corrects
a1 = 5
_b2 = 10
b = 10

#incorrects
1a = 5
23b = 10
1@ = 5
```
